generic-y += barrier.h
generic-y += bug.h
generic-y += clkdev.h
generic-y += cputime.h
generic-y += current.h
generic-y += delay.h
generic-y += device.h
generic-y += emergency-restart.h
generic-y += exec.h
generic-y += ftrace.h
generic-y += futex.h
generic-y += hardirq.h
generic-y += hw_irq.h
generic-y += io.h
generic-y += irq_regs.h
generic-y += irq_work.h
generic-y += kdebug.h
generic-y += mcs_spinlock.h
generic-y += mm-arch-hooks.h
generic-y += mutex.h
generic-y += param.h
generic-y += pci.h
generic-y += percpu.h
generic-y += preempt.h
generic-y += switch_to.h
generic-y += topology.h
generic-y += trace_clock.h
generic-y += word-at-a-time.h
generic-y += xor.h
