generic-y += atomic.h
generic-y += auxvec.h
generic-y += barrier.h
generic-y += bitsperlong.h
generic-y += clkdev.h
generic-y += cmpxchg.h
generic-y += cputime.h
generic-y += device.h
generic-y += div64.h
generic-y += errno.h
generic-y += exec.h
generic-y += emergency-restart.h
generic-y += fcntl.h
generic-y += futex.h
generic-y += hardirq.h
generic-y += ioctl.h
generic-y += ipcbuf.h
generic-y += irq_regs.h
generic-y += irq_work.h
generic-y += kdebug.h
generic-y += kmap_types.h
generic-y += kvm_para.h
generic-y += linkage.h
generic-y += local.h
generic-y += local64.h
generic-y += mcs_spinlock.h
generic-y += mm-arch-hooks.h
generic-y += mman.h
generic-y += module.h
generic-y += msgbuf.h
generic-y += percpu.h
generic-y += poll.h
generic-y += preempt.h
generic-y += resource.h
generic-y += sections.h
generic-y += sembuf.h
generic-y += shmbuf.h
generic-y += siginfo.h
generic-y += socket.h
generic-y += sockios.h
generic-y += statfs.h
generic-y += topology.h
generic-y += trace_clock.h
generic-y += types.h
generic-y += vga.h
generic-y += word-at-a-time.h
generic-y += xor.h
